I've heard directly from you food prices
have been rising and this has been going
on for years if you look at it it's not
just a problem in the United States it's
in Canada the UK and just about
everywhere else well in today's video I
thought that I would try to bring the
maximum amount of value and hit home
because this is something that may save
you money tomorrow and next year and for
the next 10 years so we're going to look
at sever things that you can do I've
written them all down actions that you
can take to save money today on our most
precious thing food yes we can look here
and and try to grow all of our own food
and go completely off grid and
self-sufficient I get that but for so
many people it's just not possible or at
least not possible right now and so what
are the actions we could take today to
make a difference why don't we start on
that and work towards self-sufficiency
does that sound good okay let's get into
this here and if you find Value in it
please hit that thumbs up button first
thing we got to understand is that if
there's one thing for sure food
inflation will persist it's going to be
10 years from now we're going to look
back yeah the prices are up that's
important so knowing that it's not as if
we could simply just get over the hump
okay everything's going to be normal
again we're in a constant state of New
Normal all right
at the same time we need to get these
prices down as best we can let's just
start with this the easy ones you can
use apps like rutin this is something
where for instance you could be buying
at Walmart and you actually get cash
back so it works on like a commission
basis where if raketen sends a customer
to Walmart Walmart will pay them they
pay you okay so this is just one example
all the links for these things will be
in the description so you don't have to
get the spellings or anything I will
link to them in the description use apps
like flip f l p p this is where you can
actually search by food so for instance
if you really wanted to get a watermelon
you could type in watermelon and it will
show you all the Flyers around in your
area of where they've got the cheapest
watermelon what's on sale now you
wouldn't go buy watermelon there and
you're going to go buy your grapes over
here I mean that wouldn't be a way to do
it but if you're already kind of on the
way or maybe oh you know I'll do my sh
Shing here this week is going to allow
you to make a better decision okay
simple stuff like that at the same time
use honey it's by PayPal and this is
coupon codes on websites so you're going
to install it in Google Chrome and when
you go in there you go to the website
you're checking out you can click on
honey and it will honey is spelled h o n
y honey like this and you go and it
automatically starts to search coupon
codes that might get you a discount on
your products okay go to small
businesses so if you can don't go to the
big box stores don't go to the big
businesses go to the small businesses
ask for a bulk purchase ask for a bulk
purchase after get them get them
comfortable seeing you they're they know
you're nice this and that before you go
out there and ask on the first time in
my example I buy bananas in a box I get
the whole case yes the whole case and
those are like you know 13 bundles at
least in there I get that for about half
the cost all right so if I were to buy
those bananas just out on the Shelf it
would be approximately 50% of the cost
these people want your business they
want that business and so you the
individual can go talk to them be real
look I'm going to bring you all the
business what can you do for me what are
the prices you can do you can't do that
at the big stores they won't necessarily
do so though Whole Foods by the way will
give you a 10% discount if you buy the
box of bananas but in general you could
do much more by supporting local and
simply talk to them say hey I won't shop
at the big box I'm going to come to you
every single week let's do a deal all
right and so for um the purposes here I
think it's important to go to the small
businesses more than one reason at the
same time if you are going into the big
stores talk to your produce manager get
to know the produce manager so where I
was previously I was always going to The
Big Box store I would talk to the the
manager there the produce manager I knew
him by name shake his hand see him every
day okay what's going on what have we
got and uh they would always give me the
freshest food directly from I was in the
back of the place I would go into the
back I knew all the people there and
that's a simple matter of fact because
knowing that I'm going to get the
freshest stuff I'm going to get
discounts on things it's going to
actually uh operate much more
efficiently let me tell you and they can
order stuff for me specifically so I
would do that as well get to know your
produce manager don't be afraid of this
these communications that we have you
know these are the things that are going
to advance us they Advance our careers
they Advance our lives in general
Farmers you know your local farmer well
most people don't but you should you
should be talking with them this
includes of course the Amish or menites
depending on the area you're in you got
to search for Google because they likely
set up in the city to sell their goods
buy in bulk split it up with your
neighbors your family your friends the
access that you have here is something
that is just for most people they're ah
you know what forget about it but you
should be taking advantage very
important okay but most people don't you
can just go to Google do a search look
for it I'm telling you right now you'll
be you'll be surprised at how many of
them actually come into the City and
they're doing business at certain places
that might not be far of a drive for you
get to know them buy from a few times
first get them to see you every week and
then you know you want to make a deal
after that don't do it on the first time
all right you could see using a credit
card get the cash back or the points of
course pay that off uh cash back and
points it seems like a no-brainer but
some people don't do that and uh I think
it is a smart thing overall just to use
that as well as it builds up your credit
a lot of people don't have credit but I
reduced produce every grocery store has
a reduced produce section I used to love
this going to the grocery store where I
would go there it' be the fruit is
actually ripe like you can't really tell
necessarily if a fruit is going to ripen
you could buy a ripen okay and um you
know your I mean most of the stores have
this and so you can get access to that
and the fruit is about 50% off so and
vegetables too I'm buy from the food
terminal I don't know if you know this
but you can actually get food at the
food terminal
and most of the food terminals are open
to the public the ones that are not open
to the public you need a food license
like you need to be a restaurant and uh
some of them you could be a landscaper
okay and so uh with that you can get in
if you know a landscaper they've got
that and you can simply ride with them
you can go and make a deal and say hey
look we're going to split this half half
and the prices are significantly
discounted but you got to buy a tray at
a time okay so you're not buying one or
two bananas okay you're buying whole
whole cases you're buying whole things
and you can get significant discounts
food terminal search for food terminal
and then your city and you will see uh
really good discounts and fresh fresh
fresh fresh because the places that you
are getting it from they're getting it
from the food terminal so you could just
skip the middle man and get that
discount buy seasonal it's cheaper there
are sales this is what you got to do if
we're getting into Citrus season you buy
citrus it's probably on sale okay so
just eating seasonally which is
healthier is something that is going to
often get a discount but some people uh
you know what I eat an apple every day
doesn't matter what time of year so
you're eating an apple in April you're
eating an apple in December you're
eating an apple in you know August you
know you got to change with the seasons
all right it's it's a matter of fact at
the same time you got to look um where
sometimes frozen food is actually
cheaper per quantity now there's a
debate about the health Factor on that
but the point is look at the Frozen look
at the fresh compare the two and uh you
will often see that Frozen you can get
um really good prices on that a lot of
times Costco can be good as a resource
but not on everything like if you go
there to buy all of your stuff you'll
find that it kind of balances out so
watch that and buy generic brand okay
the generic brand will offer you a
significant discount I didn't need to
tell you that but um you know some
people just look at the L labels you'll
find this exactly the same stuff in most
cases what other ways do you know of I
would love to know please put that in
the comments below let's share the best
comment is going to be comment of the
day so I want to see what you have
please let me know on the on the ways
that you get food at a cheaper price
what you would do or one of the things
that you love the number one thing
though that I would highlight from this
is that we need to take action the first
thing I would do is talk to the local
businesses get to know them whether
that's the farmer or whether that's the
small business little grocery store in
the corner let them see you a few times
go in there and then say hey look I'm
going to bring you all my business my
family's going to come here we'll start
shopping here from now on but see these
things over here I would love it at this
price can you do that for me what I
would do all the time I was getting 10%
at the one place but they upset me they
upset me they didn't want to give me my
banana case at 34 bucks so now I'm going
to the next door but it's 35 bucks and
I'm happy with that anyway that's
tangent when I go there I was getting a
10% discount 10% discount on anything
why because I told them I'm going to
bring you my business the other person
who didn't want to give me the $35 box
of bananas these people here I said I'm
going to bring all my business here do
you want it yes well guess what I want
that at $35 bucks okay let's do it and
so that's the way it works it's a
negotiation that's business that's the
way it works okay so these are just
simple things you got to use negotiation
in business deals I do that all the time
when I'm negotiating with my suppliers
but even with my bananas as well okay
I'm just trying to make it lighthearted
these are the way that you know you got
to deal with these things and I hope
that you will do so I hope that you will
take actions today put something in the
comments let me know what you can do
what you want to do
this is the most essential thing water
food we can't get around it and so of
course we've got to do our best if you
appreciate this video hit that thumbs up
button and I'll see you on the next one
take care